# User Management

User management is accomplished with
[_Firebase_](https://firebase.google.com/).

## Onboarding

### Signup for the user account
Form fields and data collected:

* Email address
* Password (min. 6 characters)
* Password confirmation

Upon successful form submmission the user will be sent
a confirmation e-mail link to the e-mail given in the form
field. Clicking the link will set `emailVerified` flag to
`true` on the user object.

When the e-mail that was previously registered is given
then the signup will not succeed. Misformatted e-mail
and/or password will also result in signup failure.

If the signup process was successful then the user is
automatically logged-in to the application.

### Email verification

User's e-mail address needs to be verified in order to
access all features of the account. The verification link
that is sent to the user's e-mail address has an
expiration date and can only be used once. The new link
can be generated and sent out again. This can be done from
within account settings.

## User authentication

### Login

User can log-in to the application by providing:

* Email address
* Password

Once the user is authenticated, the `currentUser` object
(accessible via Firebase app instance) contains `uid` as
well as `JWT` with proper claims that can be used for
secure communication with the backend and providing a set
of claims that the current user is entitled to.

### Password reset

When the user forgets the password or wants to reset it
then the action can be done from both states `logged-in`
and `logged-out`. When the user is logged-in the password
reset link can be sent from within account settings.
Logged-out users will have to submit the e-mail address of
the account where the password reset link will be sent.
Clicking on the link from the inbox will take the user to
new password form. New password (min. 6 characters) can be
chosen and saved. Once the password is updated the
user can immediately log in using the new password.

### Profile update

The profile of the user account contains fields that are
directly associated with the user object.

#### Email

User's e-mail address can be changed. This can be done
from within account settings. Once the user requests
e-mail change then the email verification link is sent to
the new e-mail address and an extra notification message
is sent to the previous e-email address containing the
link to stop and cancel the email update process in case
the account is compromised.

#### User display name

User can have assign the alias to be used as the user name
that is displayed throughout the application instead of
displaying an email address associated with current user.
Changing the user display name can be accomplished from
within account settings.

#### Profile photo URL

Each user can upload their avatar or provide a custom URL
where such avatar already exists. This can be set in
account settings area.
